chore(repo)!: drop support for Node.js v20 and require Node v22 (#2748)
lmc-eu/spirit-design-system: .agents/skills/upgrade-node/SKILL.md

Reviewer: praise: ❤️

Author: Thank you! 🙏

---
name: spirit:upgrade-node

> description: >-

Reviewer: suggestion: The `description` should have something like `use when the user asks for upgrading node.js version` or something like that.

Author: Done — added an explicit trigger phrase to the frontmatter description: "Use when the user asks to upgrade Node.js…"

  Upgrade Spirit Design System Node.js minimum version, .nvmrc, engines, CI matrix,
  migration docs, and @types/node catalog. Use when upgrading Node.js, dropping an
  old Node LTS, or bumping the required Node version in the monorepo.
category: spirit
displayName: Spirit Node.js Upgrade
---

# Spirit Node.js Upgrade

Use this skill when bumping the **required Node.js version** in the Spirit monorepo: `.nvmrc`,
`engines.node`, CI matrix, migration docs, and `@types/node` catalog.

Do **not** hardcode ticket IDs, commit SHAs, or specific Node versions in this workflow. Discover
current state with the scan script and historical patterns with git.

> Do **not** modify [`docs/decisions/002-node-version.md`](docs/decisions/002-node-version.md).

Reviewer: If you have omitted the line I have suggested, this file can be used as a reference.

Author: Agreed — clarified in the skill that the ADR documents the general policy and may be read for context, while version-specific details belong in migration guides. The file itself stays unchanged.

## Principles

- **Scan first.** Always run `scan-node-refs.mjs` before asking questions or editing files.
- **Confirm before editing.** Show a change summary and get user approval.
- **Git precedents, not memory.** Inspect recent Node upgrade commits in this repo.

> - **No surprise commits.** Commit only when the user explicitly asks.

Reviewer: Should this be part of the context of this skill? I think this is up to your workflow settings.

Author: Removed — you're right, this belongs in global workflow settings rather than the skill context.

---

## Workflow

### Step 1: Baseline Scan

From the repository root:

```bash
node .agents/skills/upgrade-node/scripts/scan-node-refs.mjs --pretty
```

Use the output for defaults in Step 2 and as the file checklist in Step 5.

If the script fails, fall back to grep for `engines.node`, `.nvmrc`, and `node-version:` in
`.github/workflows/`.

### Step 2: Gather Inputs

Use `AskQuestion` (or conversation context) for anything not already known:

| Input                 | Source / default                                      |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |

> | Jira ticket           | branch name, commits, or conversation                 |

Reviewer: Should this be part of the upgrading context? I think not. Or why?

Author: Removed from the inputs table — Jira traceability is handled by the global git-workflow and create-pr skills, not the Node upgrade workflow.

> | New minimum major     | user decision (e.g. `22` → `>=22`)                    |

Reviewer: I think this should be the next LTS in terms of Node.js versioning. E.g., this is discoverable by a web search tool or Context7 MCP.

Author: Updated — Step 2 now researches the [Node.js release schedule](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) (web search or Context7 MCP) to propose the next LTS after the current `summary.minEngineMajor`, then confirms with the user.

| `.nvmrc` patch        | `npm view node@<major> version`                       |
| Dropped major         | previous `summary.minEngineMajor` from scan           |
| CI matrix             | user decision; typically drop EOL, keep LTS, add next |
| Migration guide major | release major or skip                                 |
| Bump `@types/node`    | yes — align catalog major with runtime                |

> | Commit now            | no unless explicitly requested                        |

Reviewer: I think the commit is not part of this workflow.

Author: Removed — dropped "Commit now" from the inputs table and removed Step 7 entirely. The skill ends after validation.

### Step 3: Git Precedents

Find fresh precedents — do not rely on frozen examples:

```bash
git log --oneline --grep="Node" -i -20
git log --oneline --grep="upgrade.*node\|drop.*node\|engines" -i -15
```

For the most relevant commits:

```bash
git show <commit> --stat
git show <commit> -p -- .nvmrc package.json .github/workflows/build.yaml docs/migrations/ .yarnrc.yml tools/README.md
```

Typical changes to expect:

- `engines.node` in all published packages
- `.nvmrc`
- CI matrix in `.github/workflows/build.yaml`
- migration guide section „Dropped Support for Node.js X“
- `@types/node` in `.yarnrc.yml` + `yarn.lock`
- `tools/README.md` minimum version

### Step 4: Present Change Summary

Show a table of planned edits: file → old value → new value.

Use `AskQuestion`:

1. **Apply changes** — proceed with the upgrade
2. **Edit first** — user adjusts inputs
3. **Cancel** — do not modify files

### Step 5: Apply Changes

After approval, update in this order:

1. [`.nvmrc`](.nvmrc) → chosen patch version
2. **`engines.node`** → `>=<newMin>` in **every** file listed by the scan script
3. [`.github/workflows/build.yaml`](.github/workflows/build.yaml) → `node-version: [<matrix>]`

> 4. **Migration guides** (if major release):

Reviewer: Beware: Migration guides are bound to a specific state of this repository. I do not think we should specify this in a general way `{N}`. This should modify only the latest migration file. This looks like it can modify all of them.

Author: Updated — Step 5 now edits only the files reported in `latestMigrationGuides` from the scan script (highest `migration-v*.md` for `web` and `web-react`). Older guides are explicitly out of scope.

   - [`docs/migrations/web/migration-v{N}.md`](docs/migrations/web/)
   - [`docs/migrations/web-react/migration-v{N}.md`](docs/migrations/web-react/)
   - Add „General Changes → Dropped Support for Node.js X“ using the latest Node drop section in
     `docs/migrations/` as a template (find via git, not hardcoded version)
5. [`tools/README.md`](tools/README.md) → `Node.js ≥ <newMin>`
6. [`.yarnrc.yml`](.yarnrc.yml) → bump `@types/node` to latest `<newMajor>.x` patch, then
   `yarn install`

**Out of scope / do not change:**

- [`docs/decisions/002-node-version.md`](docs/decisions/002-node-version.md)
- Unrelated work on the branch
- Devcontainer or docker images unless they exist and the user asks to include them

### Step 6: Post-Upgrade Validation

```bash
node .agents/skills/upgrade-node/scripts/scan-node-refs.mjs --expect-min <newMin>
node --version
yarn install
yarn build
yarn test:unit
```

If `--expect-min` fails, fix remaining files and re-run the scan until it passes.

If `@types/node` bump causes type errors, fix only real breaking changes.

### Step 7: Commit (only on Request)

```text

> BREAKING CHANGE(repo): drop support for Node.js v<old> and require Node.js v<new> #<ticket>

Reviewer 2: Do we happen to have a different format for writing BC?

```suggestion
chore(repo)!: drop support for Node.js v<old> and require Node.js v<new> #<ticket>
```

Author: Good point — I removed Step 7 entirely (per literat's feedback that committing is outside this skill's scope). When a commit is requested separately, the format from `git-workflow.md` applies (`type(scope)!:` with `!` for breaking changes).
